# Data-Analysis-for-Conservation

Introduction   

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With limited resources, adequately protecting and conserving animal species can be a challenge. As the earth’s climate continues to shift, preserving the delicate ecosystem of the rainforest is of upmost priority. The topography of the rainforest can make it difficult to determine which specific areas need the most attention.  In this study, we collect data on bird species in tropical Belize at four different locations: Gallon Jug, Belmopan, Cockscomb Basin, and Punta Gorda. Data collected during this experiment was obtained by two methods: the point-count method and the MacKinnon list method data. Besides the quantity of taxa observed, the local topography of each location was surveyed and taken into account regarding which area needs the most protection.   
	
Methods   

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The first method of research we used was the MacKinnon list method for bird studies. The MacKinnon list method was first developed by MacKinnon and Phillips in Indonesia in 1993 and has since been utilized in other locations such as Africa (Fjeldsa, 1999), South America (Poulsen et al., 1997) and in Ecuador and Madagascar (O’dea et al., 2004). To use this method, we followed the same instructions as O’dea et al. (2004). We walked among the rainforest and jotted down any species seen or heard. Once the list reached 10 different species, we would start a new list. Any new species that was not recorded on a previous list was added to the total species number, and this number was then plotted as a function of list number. For the MacKinnon list data, all surveys were completed within the hours of 1400 and 1600 h.   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The second method we utilized in this study was the point-count method which is a more widely used bird species survey method. During this method we set up 3 different stations at each of the 4 locations in Belize and recorded all of the species seen or heard from the podiums. All of the different locations were located 100 meters apart to minimize seeing the same individual twice. To also minimize seeing the same individual twice, 10 minutes was spent at each location. All point-count surveys were completed within the hours of 0600 and 1000 h.   
